README.md, before:

# libhosty
libhosty is a pure golang library to manage the hosts file. It is inspired by [txeh](https://github.com/txn2/txeh), with some enrichments:
- Ability to Comment/Uncomment a host line without removing it from the file
- Ability to restore the default hosts file for the 3 major OS (windows, linux, darwin)
- Ability to add Comment lines
- Ability to add Empty lines

## Installation
Ensure you have go on your system
```bash
> go version
go version go1.15.6 linux/amd64
```
and pull the library
```bash
> go get github.com/areYouLazy/libhosty
```

## Usage
To use the library, just import it and call the Init() method. The library is designed to automatically panic if it is not able to initialize.

Note: This code doesn't handle errors for readability purposes, but you SHOULD!

```go
package main

import "github.com/areYouLazy/libhosty"

func main() {
	//initialize libhosty
	hfl := libhosty.Init()

	//add an empty line
	hfl.AddEmpty()

	//add a host with a comment
	hfl.AddHost("12.12.12.12", "my.host.name", "comment on my hostname!")

	//add a comment
	hfl.AddComment("just a comment")

	//add an empty line
	hfl.AddEmpty()

	//add another host without comment
	hfl.AddHost("13.13.13.13", "another.host.name", "")

	//add another fqdn to the previous ip
	hfl.AddHost("12.12.12.12", "second.host.name", "")

	// comment for host lines can be done by hostname, row line
	// or IP (as net.IP or string)
	//
	// Comment the line with address 12.12.12.12
	//
	// By-Row-Number
	idx, _ := hfl.GetHostsFileLineByHostname("second.host.name")
	hfl.CommentByRow(idx)
	//
	// By-Hostname
	hfl.CommentByHostname("second.host.name")
	//
	// By-Address-As-IP
	address := net.ParseIP("12.12.12.12")
	hfl.CommentByAddress(address)
	//
	// By-Address-As-String
	hfl.CommentByAddressAsString("12.12.12.12")

	// render the hosts file
	fmt.Println(hfl.RenderHostsFile())

	// write file to disk
	hfl.SaveHostsFile()

	// or to a custom location
	hfl.SaveHostsFileAs("/home/sonica/hosts-export.txt")

	// restore the original hosts file for linux
	hfl.RestoreDefaultLinuxHostsFile()

	// render the hosts file
	fmt.Println(hfl.RenderHostsFile())

	// write to disk
	hfl.SaveHostsFile()
}
```
The 1st `fmt.Println()` should output something like this (in a linux host)
```
# Do not remove the following line, or various programs
# that require network functionality will fail.
127.0.0.1               localhost.localdomain localhost
::1                     localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6

# 12.12.12.12           my.host.name second.host.name   #comment on my hostname!
# just a comment line

13.13.13.13             another.host.name
```
While the 2nd `fmt.Println()` should output the default template for linux systems
```
# Do not remove the following line, or various programs
# that require network functionality will fail.
127.0.0.1               localhost.localdomain localhost
::1                     localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6

```
If you handle errors properly, you'll notice that this example program will fail on the `SaveHostsFile()` call if started as a normal user, as editing the hosts file requires root privileges. This does not prevent libhosty from loading, managing, rendering and exporting the hosts file

## Why
libhosty has been developed for 2 main reasons:
- I like to write code
- I wanted a library to support [hosty](https://github.com/areYouLazy/hosty)

## Contribution
Issues and PRs are more than welcome!

Commit message:

implement logic to load custom files and update README

README.md, after:

# libhosty
libhosty is a pure golang library to manage the hosts file. It is inspired by [txeh](https://github.com/txn2/txeh), with some enrichments:
- Ability to Comment/Uncomment a host line without removing it from the file
- Ability to restore the default hosts file for the 3 major OS (windows, linux, darwin)
- Ability to add Comment lines
- Ability to add Empty lines

## Installation
Ensure you have go on your system
```bash
> go version
go version go1.15.6 linux/amd64
```
and pull the library
```bash
> go get github.com/areYouLazy/libhosty
```

## Usage
To use the library, just import it and call the `Init()` method.

To load a custom hosts file use the `InitHostsConfig` method to get a custom HostsConfig
object to pass to the `Init()` method

Note: This code doesn't handle errors for readability purposes, but you SHOULD!

```go
package main

import "github.com/areYouLazy/libhosty"

func main() {
	//initialize libhosty
	hfl, _ := libhosty.Init(nil)

	//add an empty line
	hfl.AddEmpty()

	//add a host with a comment
	hfl.AddHost("12.12.12.12", "my.host.name", "comment on my hostname!")

	//add a comment
	hfl.AddComment("just a comment")

	//add an empty line
	hfl.AddEmpty()

	//add another host without comment
	hfl.AddHost("13.13.13.13", "another.host.name", "")

	//add another fqdn to the previous ip
	hfl.AddHost("12.12.12.12", "second.host.name", "")

	// comment for host lines can be done by hostname, row line
	// or IP (as net.IP or string)
	//
	// Comment the line with address 12.12.12.12
	//
	// By-Row-Number
	idx, _ := hfl.GetHostsFileLineByHostname("second.host.name")
	hfl.CommentByRow(idx)
	//
	// By-Hostname
	hfl.CommentByHostname("second.host.name")
	//
	// By-Address-As-IP
	address := net.ParseIP("12.12.12.12")
	hfl.CommentByAddress(address)
	//
	// By-Address-As-String
	hfl.CommentByAddressAsString("12.12.12.12")

	// render the hosts file
	fmt.Println(hfl.RenderHostsFile())

	// write file to disk
	hfl.SaveHostsFile()

	// or to a custom location
	hfl.SaveHostsFileAs("/home/sonica/hosts-export.txt")

	// restore the original hosts file for linux
	hfl.RestoreDefaultLinuxHostsFile()

	// render the hosts file
	fmt.Println(hfl.RenderHostsFile())

	// write to disk
	hfl.SaveHostsFile()
}
```
The 1st `fmt.Println()` should output something like this (in a linux host)
```
# Do not remove the following line, or various programs
# that require network functionality will fail.
127.0.0.1               localhost.localdomain localhost
::1                     localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6

# 12.12.12.12           my.host.name second.host.name   #comment on my hostname!
# just a comment line

13.13.13.13             another.host.name
```
While the 2nd `fmt.Println()` should output the default template for linux systems
```
# Do not remove the following line, or various programs
# that require network functionality will fail.
127.0.0.1               localhost.localdomain localhost
::1                     localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6

```
If you handle errors properly, you'll notice that this example program will fail on the `SaveHostsFile()` call if started as a normal user, as editing the hosts file requires root privileges. This does not prevent libhosty from loading, managing, rendering and exporting the hosts file

## Why
libhosty has been developed for 2 main reasons:
- I like to write code
- I wanted a library to support [hosty](https://github.com/areYouLazy/hosty)

## Contribution
Issues and PRs are more than welcome!
